The purpose of the API is to profile a dataset on the basis of performance by a given model. The profile is provided in terms of segments/regions of the dataset. The idea is that characteristics of a model can be quickly generated and its strengths and weaknesses can be analyzed. Here is an example for the california housing dataset. This interpretation is best understood by viewing the decision tree while reading the description below.
(1) Overall, the model is slightly biased (to make a theoretical connection). This means overall, this model tends to overestimate house prices slightly.
(2) The leaves of the tree represent our segments. The left path of the tree represents a true condition and the right one the false condition. For example, the leftmost leaf in the tree is a segment of 959 houses that are identified by: lat <= 0.631, long <=-0.542 - in this segment, this model overestimates house prices (value of residual = 0.267). In the segment that is 0.631 < lat <= 0.916 and long < -0.542, the model does not overestimate that much (residue value is about 0.039). This segment has 1606 houses. The response is a log transformation applied to a big number (this is the price of a house). This should be kept in mind while interpreting the residual. So a residual of 0.267 is actually a residual of e^{0.267}. The MSE indicates the amount of variation that can expected in that segment. The performance of the model in a segment is determined by the value of the residue in that segment and the MSE in that segment. If the value is zero and the MSE is small, then the model performs well in that segment. The segment with 1606 houses is one such segment. If you compare the value of the residue and the MSE of this segment with all others, we notice that this segment is best performing. Notice that latitude and longitude are the most important features of this tree. Testament to real estate value is all about location. 

A data scientist can repeat this experiment with different models. Such experiments may yield interesting insights, for example if all models perform poorly in some segments, then the characteristics of that segment could be analyzed. Perhaps it is a different population that requires an independent modeling effort.
